Some families have predictable Christmas rhythms, but ours never did.
Our family spent a bunch of time living in the US, and what that typically meant is we spent a lot of time on the road over the Christmas holidays.
And our kids only got one week off of school, so we kept ourselves busy.
So what we would typically do is come home after Christmas Eve services, sleep in our own beds, wake up, open gifts, and then start our annual road trip marathon.
Now at the time, some of our family lived in Tennessee, some of them lived here in Canada, and then we were in New Jersey.
And if you can believe it, sometimes we would drive this ridiculous triangle between all three of those locations because the hope was to be able to see as many family members as possible.
Now, one year my son Hunter wasn't so worried about presents as much as he was thinking about Christmas dinner.
And he kept saying,
But what about Christmas dinner?
And we would say, it's not a big deal, we'll just have dinner when we get to grandma's and everyone will be all together.
And he said, no, no, no, like, what about Christmas dinner?
And we realized he was talking about dinner on the 25th.
He knew we were gonna be on the road.
And so we said, oh, okay, it's fine.
We're gonna pack some snacks.
We're gonna grab something along the way.
It'll be no problem.
Maybe by then we'll be across the border.
We can get ourselves some Timmy's or some Swiss L.A., get that kid a special.
And all along the drive, he kept asking about what we would eat and where we would eat it.
And we started to realize this is a really big deal to him.
And so we got across the border.
We were excited to be home in Canada.
And we were starting to get hungry.
We're looking for something familiar and nostalgic that we couldn't get while we were in New Jersey.
And then we realized this is going to be a lot harder than we thought.
We realized that the sit-down restaurants were not open.
And you're thinking, of course they're not open.
It's a holiday girl.
We just hadn't thought about it.
And then we thought, OK, no big deal.
We'll get the kids a donut for Christmas dinner.
It'll be so fun.
It'll make a new tradition.
It's Christmas.
Why not?
And they were like, even the drive-thru is not open.
And you're thinking, of course it's not.
It's Christmas day.
And so we were starting to get a little desperate.
And so we pulled into the only thing that was open, a gas station.
The food options were quite bleak.
And that year, our glorious Christmas dinner was a plastic-wrapped gas station submarine sandwich warmed up in a microwave.
It was terrible.
The kind of meal that you prayed before and after for completely different reasons.
So take it from me if you're driving on Christmas Day.
Please take it from me and do your research.
Plan ahead.
Whether it's in our control or not, sometimes
Christmas plans and our expectations, they get turned upside down.
And sometimes life itself can turn on a dime.
We don't always get what we expect.
And so how is it that we can find the promise of peace that Isaiah wrote about?
How do we find this prince of peace in our lives?
Well, in the Old Testament, Isaiah wrote about the birth of Jesus, looked ahead to his life.
And he said that Jesus will come as the prince
of peace.
And then in the New Testament, two of the four gospels, the accounts of Jesus's life, Matthew and Luke both looked back on Jesus's life and they talked about his birth.
And in Matthew one, you've got the account of Mary and Joseph and the angels who kind of brought them in on what was going on, what was about to happen.
And then you've got the account of the wise men.
It jumps right to that in Matthew two and they go on their own
road trip of sorts to find the baby in Bethlehem.
And then in Luke 2, however, we have the account of Mary and Joseph again, and a census had been called.
And so Joseph needed to bring Mary to his hometown.
And so they go on their own road trip of sorts from Nazareth to Bethlehem.
But also in Luke 2, we have the account of the shepherds.
And the shepherds are kind of like the campers of the Bible.
They're outdoors.
Awake at all hours of the night.
They're used to the quiet, used to being alone.
Raise your hand if you're a camper.
Anybody else like to camp around here?
Yes.
Awesome.
I think you're going to like these guys.
And I think there's going to be something that we can learn from them in Luke 2, 8 to 20, and how this relates to Jesus, the Prince of Peace.
So it says, that night there were shepherds staying in fields nearby, see, campers, guarding their flocks of sheep.
Suddenly, an angel of the Lord appeared among them, and the radiance of the Lord's glory surrounded them.
They were terrified.
Well, I should think so.
The thing that I like about camping is how peaceful it is, how attentive you are to all the sounds around you, how you leave the distractions behind you.
And then here you've got these guys.
Some of them are probably taking turns being asleep.
Some of them would be
staying awake to keep away the wild animals.
And just like when we were camping, they would be looking at the fire or maybe even looking up at the stars.
And then all of a sudden, an angel shows up and an amazing bright light.
And Luke says that they were terrified, which is Bible speak for full body panic attack.
Their peace was interrupted.
I've been there.
driving along, singing, I'll be home for Christmas, and then getting presented with a gas station submarine sandwich for Christmas dinner.
Mary and Joseph have been there, although it's much worse than a sandwich.
Mary finds out that she's pregnant, Joseph is not the father, and they have to go on a road trip of their own, end up having a baby in a barn.
That's a lot.
Have you ever had your peace interrupted?
When something unexpected knocks the peace out of your December,
Maybe the plans for celebrating are humming along and then one of the kids calls and says, sorry.
We thought we're going to be able to be there.
We can't be there.
We're going to be with the other side of the family.
Or how about this?
What if you thought you were going to have a few days to yourself where you could put your feet up and then you find out that the coach put the kids in a tournament over the holidays?
Or maybe this is you.
Maybe you thought this was the year.
You'd finally have some financial margin around Christmas just to make it feel like a little bit less of a stretch.
And then all of a sudden, unexpected car repair destroys that.
It just feels different.
So what do we do when Christmas doesn't feel peaceful at all?
The shepherds, their interruption wasn't just unexpected.
It was flat out scary.
Their peaceful night sky became this supernatural floodlight
It'd be like if you were looking at the northern lights and all of a sudden they start talking to you.
It says, they were terrified, but the angel reassured them, don't be afraid, he said.
I bring you good news that will bring great joy to all people.
The savior, yes, the Messiah, the Lord has been born today in Bethlehem, the city of David, and you will recognize him by this sign.
you'll find a baby wrapped snugly in strips of cloth lying in a manger.
And so the angel tried to calm their nerves, to calm their fear and shared the good news with them.
And it was news so good that it would be worth the interruption to their peace because Jesus, the Messiah who they'd been waiting for, was born in Bethlehem where they expected he would be and they were told how they could see him.
They were afraid, but the news was good.
And it says, suddenly the angel was joined by a vast host of others, the armies of heaven praising God and saying, glory to God in the highest heaven and peace on earth to those with whom God is pleased.
There it is.
Peace on earth.
But it didn't feel peaceful to the shepherds.
They're scared of their minds by a single angel.
And then an army of angels shows up.
It would be like heaven's pep squad erupting into the night sky shouting about peace.
Have you had an interruption this year that maybe caused you some fear?
Never mind interrupted Christmas traditions.
Some of you have experienced loss this year.
So great that your Christmas will never look the same again.
And if that's you, I imagine
It could be that you don't even want to celebrate Christmas this year.
That maybe peace feels out of reach.
If that's you, I am so very sorry.
I just wonder for all of us, what if the interruption that we resent is actually the doorway to the peace that we've been longing for?
What if the interruption to your peace was actually what made a way for a deeper, more authentic peace
with Jesus.
Could it be that peace isn't the quiet around you, but rather God with you?
I just wonder if he has something for you on the other side of this that you couldn't have experienced otherwise.
It says, when the angels had returned to heaven, the shepherd said to each other, let's go to Bethlehem.
Let's see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has told us about.
They seemed to know that the message through the angels was from the Lord.
They started out terrified, but then they are willing.
It's like the presence of peace shifted their posture.
They were rightfully scared, but they were ready to take action.
It was just as the angel had said, it says here, then they heard to the village and found Mary and Joseph, and there was the baby.
lying in the manger.
They got to see Jesus wrapped up in fabric, lying in a feeding trough in a stable.
So what did this interaction with a tiny baby do to the shepherds?
It's pretty drastic actually.
It turns out that the effect of the Prince of Peace meant that they were compelled to tell everyone they saw.
It says,
After seeing him, the shepherds told everyone what had happened and what the angel had said to them about this child, all who heard the shepherd's story were astonished.
They had a message that they could not keep to themselves.
They talked about the baby to anyone and everyone that they could.
And the message that they had shocked the people that were listening as much as it did them when the angels told them in the first place.
And I imagine that part of that shock
had to do with who was sharing the message because you see the shepherds were not people of influence by any means.
You would have thought that this message would have come to a rabbi or a king.
And then it says in verse 20, the shepherds went back to their flocks, glorifying and praising God for all they had seen and heard.
It was just as the angels had told them.
Wow.
So after telling everyone that they encountered, they praised God because the angels told them about Jesus and it was exactly as they said.
And the shepherds, they didn't go on a road trip of sorts to try and build a platform and then tell everybody about the most famous baby ever.
What did they do instead?
They went back to work.
They went back to a ho-hum job that most people didn't want and they praised God.
They returned to the same fields with a completely different heart.
They returned to their life as per usual, but they had been transformed.
What if what you thought was turning your Christmas upside down was actually what gives meaning to Christmas?
See, traditions, they help us feel like life is predictable.
They help kids feel a sense of belonging.
So when Christmas dinner doesn't go quite as someone hoped, it makes a displaced kid miss his family.
So whether it's a gas station sandwich or an interrupted peaceful night sky, or much worse, there being no room in the inn.
But what if it isn't your Christmas tradition that's interrupted?
What if it's your life?
You see, the Prince of Peace is not just for Christmas.
He's present all year long.
Because peace isn't found when everything is going right, but rather it's found when we get right with God.
It's not the absence of a mess.
It's the realization that the presence of God changes everything.
Your year didn't go as planned, but peace isn't the quiet around you.
It's God with you.
So how can we have the disposition of the shepherds?
Or even that of Mary and Joseph?
How can we not only welcome Jesus this Christmas, but actually embrace the Prince of peace and allow him to change our lives?
Well, first, I think it's important to ask why the shepherds?
If we were living in the first century, we wouldn't even be talking about the shepherds.
The wise men maybe, but like I said, the shepherds were not people of influence.
And the shepherds, they were the bottom of society.
If you think about it,
They would not have been able to practice anything that was required of them from a religious perspective.
Difficult for them to attend synagogue, to even practice Sabbath or any cleanliness rituals.
That would have been out the window.
It's not as though the shepherds were criminals, but they weren't respected either.
You see, God chose the overlooked.
The shepherds were poor.
They wouldn't have owned the sheep that they were watching.
but rather they're more likely to have been working for the people who owned those sheep.
And so it would have cost them something professionally to have left the flocks and then to go and find the Messiah and follow the message that the angels shared with them.
What they did would have looked foolish, irresponsible, and yet their obedience was risky.
Luke points out that the shepherds were the first evangelists, the first people to tell others about Jesus.
You see the significance of that?
The very people who were excluded from normal religious practices were the first ones to share the gospel.
Their interruption of peace led to a massive heart transformation.
Shepherds were changed.
I want you to think about this.
Imagine feeling alone, insignificant, terrified, and then so compelled
by a message that you're driven to take action that could cost you your livelihood.
But they were faithful, and they met the Messiah.
They were inspired to tell everyone they met, and for the first time in their lives, they had influence.
And Luke says the people were astonished, likely shocked at the messengers as much as the message itself.
And then, what did they do?
They simply returned to their work.
back to business, but changed.
So, what was the message that the angel brought?
They said, I bring good news for all people that will change your life.
The savior has been born.
Good news for all people?
The Greek word for good news, a gospel, is eungelian.
And eungelian wasn't a church word per se, so much as it was a political word.
It was a word that Rome would have used to share announcements about Caesar.
But here you have Luke using it to make an announcement about a baby in a manger.
And to say that this baby is the one that brings the real good news was a little bit of a counter empire poke.
And Luke's saying that Jesus' birth surpasses Rome's claim to bring peace.
But it wasn't just that it was good news.
What made it good was that it was for all people.
It was for the lowly shepherds.
It was for moms with unplanned pregnancies.
It was for families in gas stations on Christmas Day.
It was for the Jews and the Gentiles and even the Roman Gentiles.
So the shepherds, they started out afraid and now they're bold evangelists telling people about Jesus
They came a long way from being terrified, full of fear in a field.
So what do they do with that fear?
Or maybe the question is, how did they access this tremendous peace?
Have you ever heard someone say, my greatest fear is to be stuck in a small space?
Or my greatest fear is to go skydiving?
The thing I don't understand about that is you can avoid those things.
You can't avoid all the fears.
Not the supernatural stuff, if angels showed up in the night sky, or if you found out that the Holy Spirit got you pregnant.
That's scary.
So some fears we can avoid, but what do we do with the real fears?
The fear that finds us.
You've got stuff that you worry about, right?
The health of your loved ones, the safety of your kids, wanting to help them avoid
situations with tough consequences or hard lessons to learn.
What are we supposed to do with the fears that we face?
Sometimes I wonder what I would do.
If I found out that our family had to do another big move, I gotta tell you, I love where we live.
I love this church community.
I don't want to cross borders at Christmas anymore.
And so I'd like to think that if I learned that that was gonna be the case for us,
that I would be calm and peaceful and journey with Jesus in that, through that, I don't know what my response would be.
In Matthew 1.20, Joseph gets the news about Mary becoming pregnant, and the angel says to him, don't be afraid.
And then when Mary's much older cousin, Elizabeth, gets pregnant, her husband gets the exact same message in Luke 1.13, don't be afraid.
And then in Luke 1.30, Mary hears from the angel, and he says again, don't be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God.
You will conceive and give birth to a son, and you will name him Jesus.
And then of course, as we read this morning in Luke 2, the angels said the same thing to the shepherds.
Do not be afraid.
So what does this tell us?
It tells me,
that my propensity towards fear is not a mystery to God.
He knows that you feel that way.
So what did the Shepherds do with their fear?
Well in verse 15 and 16 it says that they were terrified, but yet they said, let's go.
Let's check this thing out that the Lord has told us about.
They didn't let their fear paralyze them, but rather the anticipation of the Prince of Peace drove them to take action.
and to investigate, and then they rushed to see the Messiah.
So could you be inspired by the shepherds today?
What do you worry about?
If you're a worrier, I know what you're thinking.
You're thinking, what don't I worry about?
It's all over my feed.
How can I not worry about all of the things?
But you know what?
The shepherds knew that the message from the angels was from the Lord.
And they investigated and they found Jesus exactly as it was told to them.
So what does that tell us?
It tells us that God is faithful, that he speaks truth into your life.
He speaks truth into your heart and over your worries.
And in Philippians it says, don't worry about anything.
Instead, pray about everything.
Tell God what you need.
and thank Him for all He has done.
And then you will experience God's peace, which exceeds anything we can understand.
His peace will guard your hearts and minds as you live in Christ Jesus.
You see, Paul is not saying to pretend you're not worried, but rather he's saying, turn your worry into prayer.
Tell God what you need.
A job, a cure, someone who understands.
some community.
Tell him.
He wants to hear from you.
And then thank him for all that he's done, for what he is about to do in your life.
And then you will experience the presence of God.
Then you will experience the peace of Jesus.
So, what is peace?
What does the peaceful presence of Jesus actually mean in our lives?
Well, in the Old Testament,
The Hebrew word for peace is shalom.
And maybe you've heard that word before.
If you're chosen fans, that's how people in the first century used to greet one another and say shalom, shalom.
And shalom refers to a wholeness or a completeness or to make amends.
And so when people greeted each other that way, they're essentially reminding each other of the amazing work that God has done to reconcile us to the Heavenly Father.
And then in the New Testament, the Greek word for peace is Irenae, and it refers to rest or quietness or oneness.
And then on the night of Jesus' birth, the angels filled the sky and worshiped God by saying, glory to God in the highest and peace on earth to those with whom God is pleased.
You see, this wasn't an ordinary peace.
As the shepherds were listening, they weren't thinking about a political stability.
or a temporary calm.
It was Shalom, a wholeness that men's what is broken, that restores what is lost and that reconciles us to God.
The baby in Bethlehem didn't come to help us escape our pain, but rather to enter into it with us.
He came to take what was broken in our lives and to bring life back to how it was intended with Jesus in it.
And what we see here is that peace isn't the life that kind of hums along between difficulties or even the calm you feel in a beach chair after a busy season at work.
It's the realization that the presence of God changes everything and makes life whole no matter what you are dealing with.
Because peace isn't the quiet around you.
It's God with you.
Peace is God restoring what's broken.
It's not simply a contentment with our current circumstances, but rather, it's a dissatisfaction with something that is not whole.
It's a desire for restoration in our relationship with Jesus.
Peace isn't a feeling, it's actually more of a fixing.
Peace isn't the quiet around you.
It's God with you.
His name is Jesus, and he shall be called Prince of Peace.
When Jesus came to earth in human form as a little baby, he lived a sinless life.
He died on the cross because of our sin.
And then he rose from the grave, defeating death.
And then he ascended to heaven.
And when he did that, he established a wholeness that cannot be overcome.
And if finding peace
Sounds like a lot of work to you.
That's because it is.
But the good news is that Jesus did all of that work for us.
So, how do I practice peace?
In Luke 2, I skipped over one of the verses that we read earlier.
I skipped over the verse that refers to Mary.
Can we just talk about Mary for a minute?
I feel like Mary had the greatest interruption to her peace.
And she would have experienced quite a bit of fear as well.
You'd be scared too if you found out that you were pregnant before you planned.
And then she has to go on this road trip to Joseph's hometown.
Meeting the family for the first time is a lot as it is.
Never mind showing up with a belly before the wedding.
And some people in that moment, they rely on their birth plan.
That brought me peace in that season of life.
Her birth plan went out the window.
You can bet that she did not plan to have a baby in a barn.
But yet in verse 19 it says, but Mary kept all these things in her heart and thought about them often.
In another translation it says she pondered them and she treasured them.
And honestly that sounds very lovely and peaceful and reflective and not something that actually comes very natural to me.
But what was Mary doing?
She was making a practice of peace.
She was reflecting on her little baby Messiah and thinking about how when the shepherds came, the people that needed the hope of Jesus, when they met him, that their lives changed and that they became so compelled by meeting him that they told everyone and that everyone who heard was amazed.
And she's thinking back to the social chaos this little baby caused before he was even born.
And while she had family members that were waiting for the Messiah and they would have recognized her pregnancy as the miracle that it was, you know that going around doing your daily life in the first century with a belly before you were married would have been a big deal.
But all along, God shared his hope with her.
God sent an angel
to Joseph to let him know that his wife was pregnant and tell him it's gonna be okay.
And then he worked supernaturally when two unborn influential cousins met each other when Mary visited Elizabeth who was carrying John the Baptist.
And all along the way, God reminded her of his presence and his plan.
And then she paused and she practiced peace.
Because Jesus himself said,
I leave you with this gift, peace of mind and heart, and the peace I give is a gift the world cannot give so don't be troubled or afraid.
This Christmas, what if you spent some time practicing peace with the Prince of Peace?
And I know what you're thinking.
You're thinking, I got a lot going on this season.
I don't have time for this.
But what if you
Started your day not with your phone, but rather in prayer.
You don't want the first voice that you hear to be that of social media.
What if instead you prayed, asked God, show me your presence throughout my day?
Or what about on the other end of the day?
What if you shut down the noise of Netflix a little earlier?
Open your Bible instead.
You don't want it to have to ask you, are you still watching?
Read your Bible, open it up, start in Luke two if you want, what we read today.
You could trade consumption for a conversation with God.
What about less shopping, more gratitude?
Or how about this?
What if you practice peace by simply being honest with God about what's breaking your sense of peace this season?
He would love to hear from you.
He can handle it.
Sometimes a very interruption to our peace is what opens the door for a more deeper and more authentic encounter with Jesus, the Prince of Peace.
Is that kind of peace actually accessible to us?
Has your life been interrupted this past year?
Have you been questioning God?
Maybe you've asked these questions.
God, why me?
Why is this happening?
But what if instead you took those why questions, turned them into how questions?
You could say, Prince of Peace, how can this interruption become more about you than me?
Jesus, how can you redeem this situation?
How will you meet me in this, making me whole and complete with you?
Because remember, the angel reassured them, don't be afraid,
This is good news for all people.
Can you imagine if God showed up and had a message for you?
I know some of you are thinking, yeah, I would welcome the clarity, thank you.
But if you're honest, do you think he might be a little afraid?
Wouldn't you be maybe afraid of what God might ask of you?
What if God asked you to take a risk at work, just like he did the shepherds?
They had to leave their sheep and then go and follow the direction of the angel's message.
Or what if God interrupted your plans like he did Mary and Joseph, for the greater good, so that more people would know the Prince of Peace?
It's so easy for us to think of good news as comfortable, as circumstantially peaceful, but what if the good news actually disrupted your life?
Would you ever be so bold?
as to pray that God would interrupt your peace so that you might know Jesus more deeply.
Tim Keller put it this way, the peace of God is not the absence of negative thoughts, it's the presence of God himself.
Can you imagine if we all put this into practice?
What if the people of Kenexes were known in our schools, our neighborhoods and our workplaces
as people who were calm, a non-anxious presence, people of peace.
I actually think that people would find that really attractive.
I think they'd be super curious about the source of that peace.
Have you ever seen this image?
I'm hoping that it could be a bit of a reminder to you.
This is a painting that was done by Akiane Chimeric as an eight-year-old.
And she wanted to paint an image of the man that she saw repeatedly in her dreams from the time she was about four years old.
And she called this painting the Prince of Peace.
And later she said, I wanted to paint the Prince of Peace I saw.
The one who looked at me with such kindness and peace that it changed my life.
Here's the thing, Akiane was not raised in a family of faith.
It wasn't until later in life that she even realized that the phrase Prince of Peace was a reference to Jesus from the Old Testament.
And then Jesus interrupts her peaceful slumber, has a child, and then she gets busy, uses her gift to create this image and share it with the world.
And there's a fascinating story about this painting.
While she was working on it, a man that came to do some work on her family's home,
and he reminded her of the image she saw in her dreams.
Turns out the sky was a carpenter.
And then the painting was stolen, it was lost, it was found, and then returned, but it wasn't shipped properly when they returned it.
And so the shipping crate actually damaged the painting, and so Akien had to painstakingly remove pieces of sawdust from the paint.
And they say that the
The fingerprints of the thief are still embossed on the paint to this day.
And then in December 2019, an anonymous collector ended up purchasing this painting for the amount of $850,000.
It had become tremendously valuable.
But why do I tell you these coincidental facts about a child prodigy's painting?
It's because later in life, Akin said that she wanted to paint an image of Jesus who brings peace to all people, no matter who they are or what they've done.
This was a painting of the Prince of Peace who is for the thief, for the carpenter, for the artist, the lowly shepherds.
Jesus came because he is for you.
And this Christmas,
The Prince of Peace wants you to find completeness in him.
In Ephesians it says, for he himself is our peace.
He wants you to experience the kindness, his kindness, his peace, and let him change your life because peace isn't the quiet around you.
It's God with you.
Let me pray for you.
Jesus, we thank you that we can come to you when we lack peace
We can come to you when life feels chaotic.
We can acknowledge your presence, and then we can know and experience peace with you.
And God, I know that this is hard to line up with our everyday lives.
And so God, I just pray for each person here that as we pause, they might be able to just hear from you
how you want to meet them in their mess, in their tradition that hasn't gone as they hoped.
Through their loss, you want to meet them there.
So God, I just pray in this moment as we pause that you would speak to them.
God, we thank you for who you are, that you want to make amends with us, that we have access to the Father because of Jesus.
And we pray that in His name, amen.